okay folks welcome back this teaching is
going to be specifically dealing with
the ICT London open kill zone okay so
the London kill zone what ICT concepts
are going to use in this module the
importance of time and price again the
London open the London session important
characteristics of London okay folks
this is one of those topics where it's a
very vast subject so I'm introducing you
slowly into one of the most important
time frames of the 24-hour banking cycle
the lung and open is typically a time
where I like to trade because it gives
me a lot of opportunities and it's well
it's magnitude is a lot more favorable
for a short-term trader it comes with it
a great deal of responsibility in terms
of knowing what the higher time frames
are doing a lot of economic calendar
releases come out overnight and they can
be very volatile but the euro dollar and
the British Pound pairs are ideal for
this time of day
and that's why I've elected to trade
those two pairs the lung and open
frequently sets up an optimal trade
entry pattern that can offer 25 to 50
pips for a scalp the key times to
monitor are 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. New
York time so in other words the easiest
way to avoid me confusing you about the
time is determine whatever time it is in
your area relative to what it is in New
York time okay and physically wait for
2:00 a.m. to be in New York and then
calibrate that with your broker and your
local time and always
a clock for New York and you'll know
exactly what I'm referring to in terms
of time it's the easiest way I can
overcome that barrier because it's been
a point of confusion many times because
I don't know where you are globally and
you're all in different locations of the
globe I don't know what the the
translation is going to be in terms of
time so the conversions are going to be
up to you but the ideal ICT London kill
zone for your learning is going to be 2
a.m. to 5 a.m. and it's relative to New
York time now if you look at this chart
here this is a euro dollar chart and
what I'm highlighting here is two
specific trading days and I want you to
take a look at the red it's like a deep
red vertical line is two of them
immediately to the right of the leftmost
vertical red line we see price action
drop down initially and then rallies up
and it creates the very high of the day
the day's low forms down here and it
comes off a low and close closes off the
low the next trading day again here is
the vertical red line and it's telling
aids New York time midnight
ok so midnight in New York that's what
this vertical red line delineates for
this particular day and this represents
midnight in New York on this trading day
so we can see that the price rallies
again for the euro dollar up into this
small little segment of time and it
creates a high and trades down crease to
low the day later on and goes in
consolidation and closes in the middle
of the range the key takeaway that I
want you to more or less be encouraged
to go through your charts and study is
that London open generally has the
highest probability of creating the high
or the low of the day so here we see
price trading up to and this little blue
line
segment and this little blue line
segment is just delineating that little
pocket of time that window of
opportunity between two o'clock in the
morning and 5:00 a.m. New York time you
can see how beautifully goes up trades
makes the high the day and then trades
progressively lower same thing here on
this day it trades up spikes up creates
the high the day and then sells off ok
this is one of the biggest things that a
lot of students of mine and people that
have dis casually looked at my things in
terms of my tutorials this is one of the
biggest wealth in my career it was the
biggest discovery because it helps me
determine where when I'm bearish the
actual height of the day is going to
form and if I can do that with a
reasonable measure of accuracy or
consistency just imagine if you could
get three to four opportunities where
you can get the high or very close to
the high today and ride the majority of
the daily range if you could do that a
few times a month you can do
exceptionally well as an FX trader now
it doesn't limit itself to just forex
this same phenomenon occurs in other
assets now I don't trade Bitcoin or
cryptocurrencies but I have students of
mind that swear by this working in that
asset as well it works in commodities it
works in bonds it works in just about
everything that trades electronically
overnight incidentally you can
anticipate things like this to occur in
index trading so if you're trading for
instance the dax the the flipsie or the
sp500 or doubt or Nasdaq futures
contracts overnight trading you can see
the same phenomenon occur as well so it
really isn't limited to just Forex now
because I taught it to the trading
community they assumed that it was
limited and only salient to Forex or
foreign exchange
I used this same concept as a commodity
trade
in early 90s so it's not that we have a
asset class that it can only function in
with this type of trading or this type
of price action it's completely
Universal and that's pretty powerful now
if we have a market that is let's say in
a strong trending environment you want
to be really focusing in on London
because London will give you at the
highest probability of a low-risk entry
price point okay and conversely we can
see when the market is bullish the
tendency is for the market to trade down
creating the low of the day in the lung
and open ICT kills him again here market
trades down after midnight in New York
time creates the low of the day between
2 o'clock and 5 o'clock in the morning
New York time low as they forms off to
the races we go so here's to
back-to-back trading days ok if you
could have taken along not even at the
low ok say you use some of I'm on maybe
a buy stop to get in ok if you trailer
by stop above these individual candle
highs and eventually it trips you in
gets you long and this is held onto it
for 30 40 pips each trading day it adds
up quickly folks same thing here market
creating a low takes off aggressively
now I want you to take a look at the
relationship between 1 lung and open low
and the immediate day after lemon open
low okay we have a range that's framed
by the low here and this highest high in
between the two London lows this is your
trading range right here
this would be an optimal trade entry
long using previous day's data to
today's London set up so you can get an
optimal trade entry on that and price
has an expansion on the upside and we
can see a very nice opportunity to head
a long trade on both days here focusing
on London open creating the low the day
when the interlining
market is poised to go higher okay so
the London session itself actually
trades a little bit longer than five
a.m. okay but for the sake of my
concepts I want to graduate over time
the significance of five o'clock in the
morning New York time to set o'clock in
the morning New York time which is
classically like a London lunch the
period where it can go quiet it can have
minor little retracements but I don't
like to see any type of entry between
five o'clock and seven o'clock in the
morning New York time because it can
tend to wait for the New York open which
will cover our next lesson but the price
action during the London session sees
the highest probability of a large
directional move in the 24 hour day so
what does that mean if we were to look
at the entire 24 hour market and pick it
picked up beginning point and filed it
around the entire world and where it
began it'll end so we have 24 hours of
time if we were to measure the volume or
how much action if you wanted to call it
any other word its its layman's terms
the most bang for your buck is going to
be in the London open now that right
away
draws excitement to younger guys and if
you don't know what you're doing you can
get really hurt quick in the lemon
session because it can be extremely
volatile and it can be like a lightning
bolt okay if you're caught on the wrong
side of the marketplace and there's a
high impact you
event that's out during that timeframe
you can get mowed over rather quickly
and if you don't use stop-loss orders
that session is going to treat you very
cruelly in the form of taking money from
you because London can be extremely
one-sided and once it takes off it's
pretty relentless it doesn't really give
you a chance to get off the hook and the
London trading session actually extends
beyond the 5 a.m. our to 7 a.m. New York
time the London session sees the highest
volume of order execution than any other
trading session if we look at the little
chart to the right and again all I'm
trying to do is show the profile itself
we don't need to zoom in and look at
details of wicks and candle bodies I
just want you to look at it graphically
in terms of the way the range is expand
and how it looks overall so we have
trading day here of consolidation it
creates a little bit of a run up rejects
that and trades aggressively lower and
then comes off the low and begins the
New York session so we have a micro
power 3 formation in here so we have the
open the rally up the expansion low off
the low closes ok prices fractal folks
we can anticipate seeing duplicate
patterns that are seen on higher time
frames on a lower timeframe so if we
understand it's a daily range if it's a
bearish market profile or for looking
for lower prices the opening on the tail
you range or the only bar it's going to
be at or near the high today the high is
going to be very limited in terms of how
much it goes above the opening price and
then the largest portion of the range is
going to be between the open and the
close and the close is going to be near
the low of the day well this is intraday
price action between this vertical line
here in this vertical line here this is
delineating 2 o'clock in the morning
to seven o'clock in the morning New York
time okay so we're looking at a window
of five hours so if we understand that
price can be fractal and we're bearish
this could be viewed as a micropower
three formation okay now why is that
significant and why should I be teaching
it to you what's the point of it well if
we see in this trading day here it
creates a scenario where let's assume
for a moment that we were anticipating a
bullish market move okay maybe this
particularly to a trade down to a level
that was some kind of a support level
and we came off of it traded
consolidated okay and then we came down
initially right after the two o'clock
time period and price drops down into a
significant low if price doesn't start
to run there during the London session
we could reasonably expect that the real
moves going to be in the next trading
session which would be the New York
session which is not going to be our
teaching here it's the next lesson in
this series but you can see the move
ensues after the crossover from the
London session and then the beginning of
the New York session now the London
session
technically extends even beyond seven
o'clock in the morning up into ten to
eleven o'clock in the morning New York
time okay so basically it's three
o'clock in the morning New York time to
11:00 a.m. to noon all relative to New
York time okay so there's an overlap of
New York and London trading which makes
the next teaching a little bit more
interesting as well but the takeaways I
want you to have is is that the London
session can create the high or low of
the day and we can also study the
profile that takes place
between the beginning and ending of the
overnight session if it's trending okay
if we have a trending model like this
chances are we could see a rather quiet
New York session it doesn't mean that
always but it's one way I'd like to look
for potentially a slow New York session
or we could have a reversal scenario
which is what we saw here okay to the
right of this vertical line is the New
York session you can see it did have a
little bit reversal but went
consolidated and basically traded in the
middle of the overall range into the
close the very next day we had a initial
drop down in London creating a low of
the day but it closed the session and
right in the middle so it didn't really
have much of a trend it had a spike low
but if we're bullish it didn't really
show any kind of indication that in the
London session but soon as we crossed
over into the New York session and
overlap with London then we have the
optimal trade entry then we have the
dynamic imbalance or the range expansion
occurs for the for the daily upside and
up close so London gives us a lot of
things to study and I want you to go
through your charts and look for
examples of the things like this
outlined here and I think you'll be
rather surprised okay the London session
characteristics
now abundant session typically creates
the low of the day when the market is
primarily bullish and the high of the
day when bearish when the market is
poised to trade higher on a daily
timeframe we can focus on the London
session to post a low of the trading day
if the daily is poised to trade lower we
can focus on the London session to post
the high of the trading day
okay
and what I've done is instead of putting
the Fibonacci on the chart and
cluttering it all up
I just basically drew a line indicating
the high I'm using and the low I'm using
now I'm not using the body of the body
reference points because it's a daily
time frame and I want to encapsulate the
entire range with the wicks included it
will not change what I'm going to show
you here so if you have your daily
timeframe on your your $1.00 you'll see
that it will still take us up into
optimal trade entry which is basically a
non indicator form of overbought or
oversold okay so what we're seeing here
is the market on the Euro trading up
into two seventy point five level
failing to get to the 79 level and this
candle right here shows a willingness to
want to reverse so the next candle we
could potentially see this be a bearish
candle now I'm not looking at swing
points I'm just looking at in terms of
where we are in the higher time frame
and this could be a point of interest
for a breakdown okay so once we have a
bearish candle like this and we're
inside the area of optimal trade entry
for sell or we would be deemed as a
potential sell the very next candle we
want to study that because it may give
us a condition that frames a power 3
formation with a Down close relative to
the daily chart okay
so we have this particular day here
which is the 28th of November and we
have the market trading sideways until
midnight in New York and then we have
the market initially drop down we do not
worry about that we want to see it rally
up into London open it starts this area
right here it's dropping here we want we
don't want to see that we want to see
price rally up that's where we'll sell
notice also that we have equal highs in
here
okay about 10 pips above this short-term
high that gives us the high of the day
at the same time we would reasonably
expect to see London open create the
high today why should the daily bias be
bearish because it's been going bullish
here while we treated into an area of
optimal trade entry and we got one
candle showing a willingness to reject
and go lower so we want to look for
characteristics like we're seeing here
you open and then rally above we can
look to be a seller there after it takes
equal highs out so we have candy lien by
stop liquidity pool okay runs up knocks
the stops out and then trades
aggressively lower grates the load of
the day it comes off a low thing trades
at or near below so in relationship to
power three if we're looking at this
price action here you can see that would
be the daily range so we can see that
the opening it's a very limited upside
movement above the opening that's just a
little portion of price action here it
creates the high of the day during the
London open kill zone between 2 o'clock
and 5 o'clock in the morning dynamic and
balance or range expansion for the daily
candle or bar creating the low of the
day right here then we come off the low
trading near the low of the day in
closing right here so this is this you
know this whole candle right here this
is what it looks like in a open high/low
close for a minute so hopefully you
found this teaching insightful and until
next time I wish you good luck and good
trading
you